README.md, before:

# Online Marketplace - Docker Setup

This is a PHP-based online marketplace application that can be easily deployed using Docker.

## Features

- User registration and authentication (buyers and sellers)
- Product management for sellers
- Shopping cart functionality for buyers
- Wishlist functionality for buyers
- Product search and browsing

## Prerequisites

- Docker
- Docker Compose

## Quick Start

1. **Clone or navigate to the project directory**
   ```bash
   cd sharon-public-marketplace
   ```

2. **(Optional) Configure custom ports**
   ```bash
   # Copy the example environment file
   cp env.example .env
   
   # Edit .env to set custom ports if needed
   # WEB_PORT=8081 (default)
   # DB_PORT=3306 (default)
   ```

3. **Build and run the application**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

4. **Access the application**
   - Open your browser and go to: http://localhost:8081 (or your custom WEB_PORT)
   - The application will be running with Apache web server
   - MySQL database will be automatically set up with the required schema
   - The application will be running with Apache web server
   - MySQL database will be automatically set up with the required schema

## Default Test Accounts

The application comes with two pre-configured test accounts:

- **Seller Account:**
  - Username: `admin_seller`
  - Password: `password`

- **Buyer Account:**
  - Username: `test_buyer`
  - Password: `password`

## Database

- **MySQL 8.0** is used as the database
- Database is automatically initialized with the required tables
- Database data is persisted in a Docker volume
- Database is accessible on `localhost:3306` by default (or your custom DB_PORT)
- Root password: `rootpassword`

## File Structure

```
├── Dockerfile              # PHP Apache container configuration
├── docker-compose.yml      # Multi-container setup with MySQL
├── env.example             # Environment variables template
├── init.sql                # Database schema and sample data
├── config.php              # Database configuration
├── register.php            # User registration
├── login.php               # User authentication
├── logout.php              # User logout
├── dashboard.php           # User dashboard
├── add_product.php         # Product management (sellers)
├── products.php            # Product listing and search
├── add_to_cart.php         # Add items to shopping cart
├── cart.php                # View and manage shopping cart
├── add_to_wishlist.php     # Add items to wishlist
└── wishlist.php            # View and manage wishlist
```

## Development

### Stopping the Application
```bash
docker-compose down
```

### Rebuilding After Code Changes
```bash
docker-compose down
docker-compose up --build
```

### Viewing Logs
```bash
docker-compose logs web
docker-compose logs db
```

### Database Access
You can connect to the MySQL database using any MySQL client:
- Host: localhost
- Port: 3306 (or your custom DB_PORT)
- Username: root
- Password: rootpassword
- Database: online_store

## Environment Variables

The application supports the following environment variables:

### Port Configuration
- `WEB_PORT`: Web application port (default: 8081)
- `DB_PORT`: MySQL database port (default: 3306)

### Database Configuration
- `DB_HOST`: Database host (default: db)
- `DB_NAME`: Database name (default: online_store)
- `DB_USER`: Database username (default: root)
- `DB_PASS`: Database password (default: rootpassword)

### Custom Configuration
To use custom ports or settings:
1. Copy `env.example` to `.env`
2. Modify the values in `.env` as needed
3. Run `docker-compose up --build`

## Troubleshooting

1. **Port conflicts**: If the default ports (8081 or 3306) are already in use, create a `.env` file from `env.example` and modify the WEB_PORT and DB_PORT values
2. **Database connection**: Wait a few seconds after starting for the database to fully initialize

## Security Notes

This is a development setup. For production use, consider:
- Using environment files for sensitive data
- Implementing proper input validation and sanitization
- Adding HTTPS support
- Using non-root database users
- Implementing proper error handling

Commit message:

Add image upload support for products, enhance cart and wishlist display with product images, and update database schema

README.md, after:

# Online Marketplace - Docker Setup

This is a PHP-based online marketplace application that can be easily deployed using Docker.

## Features

- User registration and authentication (buyers and sellers)
- Product management for sellers with image upload support
- Shopping cart functionality for buyers
- Wishlist functionality for buyers
- Product search and browsing
- Image storage in MySQL database as BLOB objects

## Prerequisites

- Docker
- Docker Compose

## Quick Start

1. **Clone or navigate to the project directory**
   ```bash
   cd sharon-public-marketplace
   ```

2. **(Optional) Configure custom ports**
   ```bash
   # Copy the example environment file
   cp env.example .env
   
   # Edit .env to set custom ports if needed
   # WEB_PORT=8081 (default)
   # DB_PORT=3306 (default)
   ```

3. **Build and run the application**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

4. **Access the application**
   - Open your browser and go to: http://localhost:8081 (or your custom WEB_PORT)
   - The application will be running with Apache web server
   - MySQL database will be automatically set up with the required schema
   - The application will be running with Apache web server
   - MySQL database will be automatically set up with the required schema

## Default Test Accounts

The application comes with two pre-configured test accounts:

- **Seller Account:**
  - Username: `admin_seller`
  - Password: `password`

- **Buyer Account:**
  - Username: `test_buyer`
  - Password: `password`

## Database

- **MySQL 8.0** is used as the database
- Database is automatically initialized with the required tables
- Database data is persisted in a Docker volume
- Database is accessible on `localhost:3306` by default (or your custom DB_PORT)
- Root password: `rootpassword`

## File Structure

```
├── Dockerfile              # PHP Apache container configuration
├── docker-compose.yml      # Multi-container setup with MySQL
├── env.example             # Environment variables template
├── init.sql                # Database schema and sample data
├── config.php              # Database configuration
├── register.php            # User registration
├── login.php               # User authentication
├── logout.php              # User logout
├── dashboard.php           # User dashboard
├── add_product.php         # Product management (sellers)
├── products.php            # Product listing and search
├── add_to_cart.php         # Add items to shopping cart
├── cart.php                # View and manage shopping cart
├── add_to_wishlist.php     # Add items to wishlist
├── wishlist.php            # View and manage wishlist
└── image.php               # Serve product images from database
```

## Development

### Stopping the Application
```bash
docker-compose down
```

### Rebuilding After Code Changes
```bash
docker-compose down
docker-compose up --build
```

### Viewing Logs
```bash
docker-compose logs web
docker-compose logs db
```

### Database Access
You can connect to the MySQL database using any MySQL client:
- Host: localhost
- Port: 3306 (or your custom DB_PORT)
- Username: root
- Password: rootpassword
- Database: online_store

## Environment Variables

The application supports the following environment variables:

### Port Configuration
- `WEB_PORT`: Web application port (default: 8081)
- `DB_PORT`: MySQL database port (default: 3306)

### Database Configuration
- `DB_HOST`: Database host (default: db)
- `DB_NAME`: Database name (default: online_store)
- `DB_USER`: Database username (default: root)
- `DB_PASS`: Database password (default: rootpassword)

### Custom Configuration
To use custom ports or settings:
1. Copy `env.example` to `.env`
2. Modify the values in `.env` as needed
3. Run `docker-compose up --build`

## Troubleshooting

1. **Port conflicts**: If the default ports (8081 or 3306) are already in use, create a `.env` file from `env.example` and modify the WEB_PORT and DB_PORT values
2. **Database connection**: Wait a few seconds after starting for the database to fully initialize

## Security Notes

This is a development setup. For production use, consider:
- Using environment files for sensitive data
- Implementing proper input validation and sanitization
- Adding HTTPS support
- Using non-root database users
- Implementing proper error handling
